1#In this work, we develop and release Llama 2, a collection of pretrained and fine-tuned large language models (LLMs) ranging in scale from 7 billion to 70 billion parameters. Our fine-tuned LLMs, called Llama 2-Chat, are optimized for dialogue use cases. Our models outperform open-source chat models on most benchmarks we tested, and based on our human evaluations for helpfulness and safety, may be a suitable substitute for closedsource models.
2#We provide a detailed description of our approach to fine-tuning and safety improvements of Llama 2-Chat in order to enable the community to build on our work and contribute to the responsible development of LLMs
3#Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown great promise as highly capable AI assistants that excel in complex reasoning tasks requiring expert knowledge across a wide range of fields, including in specialized domains such as programming and creative writing. They enable interaction with humans through intuitive chat interfaces, which has led to rapid and widespread adoption among the general public.
4#The capabilities of LLMs are remarkable considering the seemingly straightforward nature of the training methodology. Auto-regressive transformers are pretrained on an extensive corpus of self-supervised data, followed by alignment with human preferences via techniques such as Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF). Although the training methodology is simple, high computational requirements have limited the development of LLMs to a few players.
5#There have been public releases of pretrained LLMs (such as BLOOM (Scao et al., 2022), LLaMa-1 (Touvron et al., 2023), and Falcon (Penedo et al., 2023)) that match the performance of closed pretrained competitors like GPT-3 (Brown et al., 2020) and Chinchilla (Hoffmann et al., 2022), but none of these models are suitable substitutes for closed “product” LLMs, such as ChatGPT, BARD, and Claude.
6#These closed product LLMs are heavily fine-tuned to align with human preferences, which greatly enhances their usability and safety.
7#This step can require significant costs in compute and human annotation, and is often not transparent or easily reproducible, limiting progress within the community to advance AI alignment research.
8#In this work, we develop and release Llama 2, a family of pretrained and fine-tuned LLMs, Llama 2 and Llama 2-Chat, at scales up to 70B parameters. On the series of helpfulness and safety benchmarks we tested, Llama 2-Chat models generally perform better than existing open-source models. They also appear to be on par with some of the closed-source models, at least on the human evaluations we performed (see Figures 1 and 3).
9#We have taken measures to increase the safety of these models, using safety-specific data annotation and tuning, as well as conducting red-teaming and employing iterative evaluations. Additionally, this paper contributes a thorough description of our fine-tuning methodology and approach to improving LLM safety.
10#We hope that this openness will enable the community to reproduce fine-tuned LLMs and continue to improve the safety of those models, paving the way for more responsible development of LLMs. We also share novel observations we made during the development of Llama 2 and Llama 2-Chat, such as the emergence of tool usage and temporal organization of knowledge.
11#Figure 3: Safety human evaluation results for Llama 2-Chat compared to other open-source and closedsource models. Human raters judged model generations for safety violations across ~2,000 adversarial prompts consisting of both single and multi-turn prompts. More details can be found in Section 4.4. It is important to caveat these safety results with the inherent bias of LLM evaluations due to limitations of the prompt set, subjectivity of the review guidelines, and subjectivity of individual raters.
12#Additionally, these safety evaluations are performed using content standards that are likely to be biased towards the Llama 2-Chat models.
13#We believe that the open release of LLMs, when done safely, will be a net benefit to society. Like all LLMs,Llama 2 is a new technology that carries potential risks with use (Bender et al., 2021b; Weidinger et al., 2021;Solaiman et al., 2023). Testing conducted to date has been in English and has not — and could not — cover
14#all scenarios. Therefore, before deploying any applications of Llama 2-Chat, developers should perform safety testing and tuning tailored to their specific applications of the model. We provide a responsible useguide¶ and code examples‖
15#to facilitate the safe deployment of Llama 2 and Llama 2-Chat. More details of our responsible release strategy can be found in Section 5.3. The remainder of this paper describes our pretraining methodology (Section 2), fine-tuning methodology (Section 3), approach to model safety (Section 4), key observations and insights (Section 5), relevant related work (Section 6), and conclusions (Section 7).
